README.md, before:

# Awesome PhD [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated list of awesome advice, tips and resources to prepare for PhD/grad school. Inspired by awesome [@lexing](https://twitter.com/lexing) & [@jeanqasaur](https://twitter.com/jeanqasaur).

If you want to contribute to this list (PLEASE DO), read the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/alirezasmr/awesome-phd/blob/master/contributing.md), send a pull request or contact me [@alirezasmr](https://twitter.com/alirezasmr).

## Table of Contents

<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=4 -->

- [Pursuing a PhD / grad school guidance](#pursuing-a-phd--grad-school-guidance)
- [Research, and the research career](#research-and-the-research-career)
    - [Advice & tips](#advice--tips)
    - [Publishing and presenting](#publishing-and-presenting)
    - [Writing tools](#writing-tools)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->
## Pursuing a PhD / grad school guidance

* [The Illustrated Guide to a Ph.D.](http://matt.might.net/articles/phd-school-in-pictures/)
* [A Survival Guide to a PhD](http://karpathy.github.io/2016/09/07/phd/)
* [Why Am I in Graduate School?](http://cra-ccc.org/lifeofacsgs/why-am-i-in-graduate-school)
* [Do You Need a PhD?](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2012/03/do-you-need-phd.html)
* [So, You Want to Go to Grad School?](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2010/09/so-you-want-to-go-to-grad-school.html)
* [Reasons to Pursue a Ph.D.](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2011/12/reasons-to-pursue-phd.html)
* [Notes on the PhD Degree](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2010/09/so-you-want-to-go-to-grad-school.html)
* [The Life of an Academic, Explained](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2012/02/life-of-academic-explained.html)
* [How Science Really Works](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2013/01/how-science-really-works.html)
* [What My PhD Was Like](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2016/02/my-phd-abridged.html)
* [10 Easy Ways to Fail a Ph.D.](http://matt.might.net/articles/ways-to-fail-a-phd/)
* [Advice for Students and Junior Researchers](http://www.markus-jakobsson.com/advice-for-students-and-junior-researchers)
* [Choosing the Right Grad School](http://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2009/10/28/choosing_the_ri.html)
* [Deciding to Apply](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2008/08/cs-grad-school-part-1-deciding-to-apply.html)
* [Some Notes on Picking Grad Schools/Advisors](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2009/02/some-notes-on-picking-grad.html)
* [FAQ: Applying to Graduate School for Computer Science](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2012/10/faq-applying-to-graduate-school-for.html)
* [Realistic Expectations Keep You on the Path to a PhD](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/realistic-expectations-keep-you-on-the-path-to-a-phd/2015739.article)
* [Some Modest Advice for Graduate Students](http://stearnslab.yale.edu/some-modest-advice-graduate-students)
* [Advice for New Ph.D. Students](http://pgbovine.net/early-stage-PhD-advice.htm)
* [A Collection of Advices for Authoring a PhD or Academic Book](https://medium.com/advice-and-help-in-authoring-a-phd-or-non-fiction)
* [I Graduated From Harvard and MIT — Here's the Smartest Thing I Did on My Applications](http://www.businessinsider.com/make-college-application-stand-out-2016-12?IR=T&r=US&IR=T)
* [So long, and thanks for the Ph.D.!](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~azuma/hitch4.html)
* [A Happy PhD: A blog about doctoral productivity, supervision and wellbeing](https://ahappyphd.org/)

## Research, and the research career

### Advice & tips
* [You and Your Research](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html)
* [How to Have a Bad Career in Research/Academia](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~pattrsn/talks/research.pdf)
* [Software Is Not Science](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2011/11/software-is-not-science.html)
* [The Ph.D. Grind - A Ph.D. Student Memoir](http://www.pgbovine.net/PhD-memoir.htm)
* [The PhD Grind, and Why Research Isn't Like Sex](http://blog.regehr.org/archives/743)
* [Useful Thoughts About Research](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/htk/phdadvice/)
* [How to Read an Academic Article](https://organizationsandmarkets.com/2010/08/31/how-to-read-an-academic-article/)
* [Advice on Reading Academic Papers](http://www4.ncsu.edu/~akmassey/posts/2012-02-15-advice-on-reading-academic-papers.html)
* [Should I Read Papers?](http://michaelrbernste.in/2014/10/21/should-i-read-papers.html)
* [14 Essential PhD Questions Answered](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/14-essential-phd-questions-answered/2006473.article?page=0%2C5)
* [Writing Tips for Ph.D. Students](https://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/phd_paper_writing.pdf)
* [How to Write a PhD Abstract: An Interactive Guide to the Purpose, Parts & Process](https://crq.adobeconnect.com/abstract/)
* [How to Prepare a Manuscript for International Journals](https://www.elsevier.com/connect/six-things-to-do-before-writing-your-manuscript)

### Publishing and presenting
* [How to Write a Paper](http://www-mech.eng.cam.ac.uk/mmd/ashby-paper-V6.pdf)
* [Poster Perfect](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/31071/title/Poster-Perfect/)
* [The Elements of Style](http://www.bartleby.com/141/)
* [Writing Technical Articles](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/etc/writing-style.html)
* [Coping With Issues of Sloppiness and Carelessness in Writing](http://asegrp.blogspot.my/2011/06/coping-with-issues-of-sloppiness-and.html)
* [Steps to Write a Survey Paper](http://researchpedia.info/steps-to-write-a-survey-paper/)
* [The Literature Review: A Few Tips on Conducting It](http://www.writing.utoronto.ca/advice/specific-types-of-writing/literature-review)

### Writing tools
* [The Blue Book of Grammar](http://www.grammarbook.com/)
* [ShareLaTeX](https://www.sharelatex.com/)
* [Scientific Python Lectures](https://github.com/jrjohansson/scientific-python-lectures)


## Miscellaneous

* [Awesome Research Tools](https://github.com/emptymalei/awesome-research)

Commit message:

Update list description and contribution call to action

README.md, after:

# Awesome PhD [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)


> Carefully curated list of awesome advice, tips and resources to prepare for PhD/grad school.

Contributions welcome. Add links through pull requests or create an issue to start a discussion.

It's always been sad to see a service shutdown, or hardware stop renew, here is the list we gather that have this tough decision [Archived](ARCHIVED.md)

## Table of Contents

<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=4 -->

- [Pursuing a PhD / grad school guidance](#pursuing-a-phd--grad-school-guidance)
- [Research, and the research career](#research-and-the-research-career)
    - [Advice & tips](#advice--tips)
    - [Publishing and presenting](#publishing-and-presenting)
    - [Writing tools](#writing-tools)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->
## Pursuing a PhD / grad school guidance

* [The Illustrated Guide to a Ph.D.](http://matt.might.net/articles/phd-school-in-pictures/)
* [A Survival Guide to a PhD](http://karpathy.github.io/2016/09/07/phd/)
* [Why Am I in Graduate School?](http://cra-ccc.org/lifeofacsgs/why-am-i-in-graduate-school)
* [Do You Need a PhD?](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2012/03/do-you-need-phd.html)
* [So, You Want to Go to Grad School?](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2010/09/so-you-want-to-go-to-grad-school.html)
* [Reasons to Pursue a Ph.D.](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2011/12/reasons-to-pursue-phd.html)
* [Notes on the PhD Degree](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2010/09/so-you-want-to-go-to-grad-school.html)
* [The Life of an Academic, Explained](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2012/02/life-of-academic-explained.html)
* [How Science Really Works](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2013/01/how-science-really-works.html)
* [What My PhD Was Like](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2016/02/my-phd-abridged.html)
* [10 Easy Ways to Fail a Ph.D.](http://matt.might.net/articles/ways-to-fail-a-phd/)
* [Advice for Students and Junior Researchers](http://www.markus-jakobsson.com/advice-for-students-and-junior-researchers)
* [Choosing the Right Grad School](http://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2009/10/28/choosing_the_ri.html)
* [Deciding to Apply](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2008/08/cs-grad-school-part-1-deciding-to-apply.html)
* [Some Notes on Picking Grad Schools/Advisors](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2009/02/some-notes-on-picking-grad.html)
* [FAQ: Applying to Graduate School for Computer Science](http://jxyzabc.blogspot.my/2012/10/faq-applying-to-graduate-school-for.html)
* [Realistic Expectations Keep You on the Path to a PhD](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/realistic-expectations-keep-you-on-the-path-to-a-phd/2015739.article)
* [Some Modest Advice for Graduate Students](http://stearnslab.yale.edu/some-modest-advice-graduate-students)
* [Advice for New Ph.D. Students](http://pgbovine.net/early-stage-PhD-advice.htm)
* [A Collection of Advices for Authoring a PhD or Academic Book](https://medium.com/advice-and-help-in-authoring-a-phd-or-non-fiction)
* [I Graduated From Harvard and MIT — Here's the Smartest Thing I Did on My Applications](http://www.businessinsider.com/make-college-application-stand-out-2016-12?IR=T&r=US&IR=T)
* [So long, and thanks for the Ph.D.!](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~azuma/hitch4.html)
* [A Happy PhD: A blog about doctoral productivity, supervision and wellbeing](https://ahappyphd.org/)

## Research, and the research career

### Advice & tips
* [You and Your Research](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html)
* [How to Have a Bad Career in Research/Academia](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~pattrsn/talks/research.pdf)
* [Software Is Not Science](http://matt-welsh.blogspot.my/2011/11/software-is-not-science.html)
* [The Ph.D. Grind - A Ph.D. Student Memoir](http://www.pgbovine.net/PhD-memoir.htm)
* [The PhD Grind, and Why Research Isn't Like Sex](http://blog.regehr.org/archives/743)
* [Useful Thoughts About Research](http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/htk/phdadvice/)
* [How to Read an Academic Article](https://organizationsandmarkets.com/2010/08/31/how-to-read-an-academic-article/)
* [Advice on Reading Academic Papers](http://www4.ncsu.edu/~akmassey/posts/2012-02-15-advice-on-reading-academic-papers.html)
* [Should I Read Papers?](http://michaelrbernste.in/2014/10/21/should-i-read-papers.html)
* [14 Essential PhD Questions Answered](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/14-essential-phd-questions-answered/2006473.article?page=0%2C5)
* [Writing Tips for Ph.D. Students](https://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/phd_paper_writing.pdf)
* [How to Write a PhD Abstract: An Interactive Guide to the Purpose, Parts & Process](https://crq.adobeconnect.com/abstract/)
* [How to Prepare a Manuscript for International Journals](https://www.elsevier.com/connect/six-things-to-do-before-writing-your-manuscript)

### Publishing and presenting
* [How to Write a Paper](http://www-mech.eng.cam.ac.uk/mmd/ashby-paper-V6.pdf)
* [Poster Perfect](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/31071/title/Poster-Perfect/)
* [The Elements of Style](http://www.bartleby.com/141/)
* [Writing Technical Articles](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/etc/writing-style.html)
* [Coping With Issues of Sloppiness and Carelessness in Writing](http://asegrp.blogspot.my/2011/06/coping-with-issues-of-sloppiness-and.html)
* [Steps to Write a Survey Paper](http://researchpedia.info/steps-to-write-a-survey-paper/)
* [The Literature Review: A Few Tips on Conducting It](http://www.writing.utoronto.ca/advice/specific-types-of-writing/literature-review)

### Writing tools
* [The Blue Book of Grammar](http://www.grammarbook.com/)
* [ShareLaTeX](https://www.sharelatex.com/)
* [Scientific Python Lectures](https://github.com/jrjohansson/scientific-python-lectures)


## Miscellaneous

* [Awesome Research Tools](https://github.com/emptymalei/awesome-research)
